have you ever thought about building
your own pc if you have you can use a
screwdriver then all you need is a
little know-how now the first bit I can
definitely do the second well that is
what I'm here to find out stay tuned and
we'll take you through all the steps to
make your own custom pc well I've never
built a pc before so I'm pretty excited
so let's get on with it
ladies and gentlemen you are about to
witness the inaugural switch-on of my
first hand built pc so charge your
glasses before you do that I think we
should just quickly recap our journey to
get here after installing the processor
and memory in the motherboard and
fitting it into the case we then added
the power supply graphics card hard
drive and optical drive and if you
missed any of the parts then just click
back to watch them first okay we've just
plugged in a keyboard mouse and monitor
something I'm sure you've done many
times before and we're ready for the
switch on allow me I am totally
qualified now do I get a certificate
think of your new pc is a huge powerful
certificate you can also play games on
right you do the honors now as we
haven't installed windows yet the first
thing we need to do is go into the bios
this usually involves either pressing
one of the f keys or the del key at
startup it'll tell you in your
motherboard manual and it's worth
pressing it just a few times to make
sure now what's pretty nice about this a
zoo spires is you can navigate it using
a mouse and there are icons rather than
just lots of text so it's a bit
friendlier I like finally it's a nice
thing to be okay now the first thing you
want to check in the bios is the process
of temperature there are no warnings
here then you know you've connected up
the heatsink and fan correctly over here
you can also check the individual fans
of running properly too much heat can
kill a PC so it's essential to check
that these are working properly first
all looks good to me can I use IE
creation then almost we first need to
install windows and then we're ready to
go so put the disk in and then reboot to
start the installation process this will
take a while so let's go make a cup of
tea we'll see you when it's finished
loading right we're back and it's alive
it is indeed now there are a couple of
extra things we can do thanks to the
asus motherboard in this machine whether
you have something similar depends on
what board you've used I'm intrigued so
show me off well first we need to
install the asus software and drivers
that came with the motherboard now
there's an install all option here which
helps speed things up we need to run
this first for the drivers and then the
utilities said it going and then we're
going to go get another cup of tea while
it installs I'm always at for another
of tea okay now that's loaded start the
AI suite to application so what does
this let me do it basically gives you
control over fine-tuning your PC so it's
set up the best way for you for example
you can often get extra performance from
your processor by running it at faster
speed we call this overclocking X
performance for no extra cost I am all
over that is it complicated it can be
but the turbo v evo function makes it
pretty simple if you know what you're
doing you can use it to tweak all the
settings by hand but if you just want a
quick boost the auto tuning option will
do it for you just click the auto tuning
button to get started there are two
options fast and extreme to try them out
just read the warning messages and then
click OK your PC will reboot a few times
but once it's worked out the best
settings it will save them to the bar so
you get a faster system ok sounds good
but what if I go power crazy and push
things a bit too far well usually the
worst that will happen is that your PC
will refuse to boot there are many
fail-safes that shut down the system to
avoid damaging the components and of
course if you do overclock your system
then this is at your own risk and you
can't blame us if everything goes wrong
ok it's not sounds fair to me but what
if I fail to listen to your advice and
my pc won't boot well it probably means
that you push the settings too far in
order to return your PC to its previous
state on most motherboards you just need
to reset the bios and it will boot with
the default values this usually involves
opening the case or either changing a
jumper or pressing a reset button this
motherboard also has a USB bios flash
back function so you can even update the
bios on a non functional system using a
USB stick and you can do this without a
processor or memory installed ok so
we've covered power but what if I'd
rather have a bit of peace and quiet
instead then you should fire up the fan
xpert to utility in the tool section of
AI suite the autotune option will tailor
the performance of each fan whether
you're after silent standard or turbo
just let it do its thing and you can
have a quieter system or one primed for
performance alright well that's much
better I'm getting into this old
tweaking things so is there anything
else I can change well the digi+ power
control is a good place to start
can use the Smart digi+ to overclock the
pc by adjusting the voltages but more
interestingly we can also use it to
reduce the total power consumption which
will save you money on your electricity
bill well I'm all about saving money so
how do I do that oh just choose from the
45 watt or 35 watt options and then
click the button your pc will be running
in a power friendly mode although this
does mean you might not get the maximum
performance it's all the trade-off
sounds good that's me done I think I'm
going to need some quality time with my
new creation and hopefully you've
enjoyed our tutorial and your now for
confident in building your own pc i know
i do and now I won't have to bug like
geeky friends to help me I can just do
it myself
you